I am interested in the above advertised position of “Data and GIS Manager”, as it offers the possibility for me to apply my knowledge and bring value to HIM. I possess a bachelor’s degree in computer science and master’s degree in GIS, as well as  a combination of experience in data management, GIS analysis, ArcGIS online dashboards, software development, data collection/automatization using R and python languages for health information systems and Prince 2 practitioner certificate in Project Management.
For the past two years, In my role as data manager for  the European Gateway, I have coordinated  Data information activities and consultancy contracts that include analytical products: data quality analysis of health information,  indicator calculation, ETL (extract, transform, load), surveys,  health systems performance. In addition, I have coordinated  agile software development (building websites/tools/ mobile usability) & IT infrastructure with an outsource partner managing the long term agreement (LTA) contract. 
Moreover, I have coordinated and provided GIS technical expertise for National level projects for countries and  developed the GIS assessment tool as part of Health Information systems assessment methodology. The GIS assessment tool has been successfully applied in Georgia, based on which  the GIS assessment report was created, covering recommendations for the country on how to create/develop their national GIS information management platform. At this stage, a GIS workshop has been prepared for five days training, to be delivered in June 2023 in Georgia, with participation of representatives  of other five countries from Central Asia (CARINFONET)  to find potential synergies and ways of GIS integration at national level. My role in this process was to coordinate the training materials for the workshop among nine facilitators and coordinate administratively the project.  Further, I coordinate and provide the technical expertise for the procurement process to build a Geo-database, using ArcGIS IT infrastructure and necessary client and server components. It will be used for prevention, management planning of health resources for better informed data driven decisions. 
Being nominated as GIS focal point to represent EURO region at GIS Center for Health,  I facilitate in  GIS capacity building activities (i.e. knowledge sharing, training provision, etc), strengthening collaboration between EURO GIS and HQ. Being part of the GIS experts working groups, I provide support in building GIS strategy for the member states.
I have volunteered to manage GIS and data information systems during Covid-19 pandemic with HIM (1.5 years). In this role, I organized the data collection, analysis, and quality verification for Covid-19 database in Euro International Health Regulation (IHR). I have automatized (web scraping) and implemented a data collection system from the countries’ official websites. I have established the reporting mechanism to gather, structure data, transform/quality assess and share relevant information.
Due to ECDC moving to weekly reporting in December 2020, one of my major task was to develop new necessary scripts in R language, as to collect data from a new source provided by EU Joint Research Center (JRC), which was a successful project for WHO European region. The final collated dataset is used to update GIS EURO COVD19 situation dashboard and shared with WHO HQ to be included in WHO global dashboard.
Earlier, I acted as a Data Manager for 1 year at  (Vaccine Preventable Diseases) VPD and conducted data processing, quality oversight and organization of data exchange with Member States, WHO Headquarters and other partners, producing weekly polio summary, monthly epidemiological bulletins, and WHO/UNICEF vaccine coverage maps.
I feel I would be an asset to your team. Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to hearing from you.
